1. sudo rm -rf --no-preserve-root - This is one of the scariest commands. When you run this command, it deletes everything in the root directory forcibly and recursively. As a result, all of your directories and subdirectories will be deleted, and all of your data will be lost.
sudo mv -rf  / /dev/null/ - This command will move all data to a special location in Linux known as the black hole, which is located in your system at /dev/null.
 ulimit -S -u 4000 - This is my personal best, a simple bash recursive function that, when executed, creates copies of itself, which in turn creates another set of copies of itself. This takes up CPU time and memory. As a result, it loops until the system freezes.
 sudo command > /dev/sda - This command writes raw data (command output) to the specified partition. This causes data loss on the hard drive or specified partition.
mkfs.ext3 /dev/sda/ - This command will erase your hard drive and recreate it.These should only be used when you have a backup of your data on the cloud or an external device.

cut - allows you to cut out sections of a specified file or piped data and print the result to standard output.
sort - used to sort files
uniq - used to extract uniq occurences
tr - utility for translating or deleting characters.
5 grep - searches a file for a pattern of characters and displays all lines that match.
awk - a scripting language used for text processing.
sed - stream editor used to perform lots of functions on files, like searching, find and replace, insertion, or deletion.
pstree - used to show running processes in a tree (data structure).
latest - displays a list of the most recently logged-in people.
w – display a list of the currently logged-in user sessions.
free - use to get a detailed report on the system's memory usage.
scp - securely copy files or directories over ssh.
find - locates files using user-defined criteria.
ncdu - provides a useful and convenient way to view disk usage.
ip - used to show or manipulate routing, devices, and tunnels.
ls - list the contents of a directory.
df - Displays the amount of disk space used.
du - display a list of all the files along with their respective sizes.
diff - used to display differences in files by comparing line by line.
uptime – displays the system uptime as well as the load average.
top/btop++ – shows a real-time view of running processes in Linux.
dstat - allows you to view all of your system resources instantly. All-in-one vmstat, iostat, netstat, and ifstat utility.
Iftop is a network traffic viewer.
nethogs - is a network traffic analyzer.
vmstat - used to obtain information about memory, system processes, paging, interrupts, block I/O, disk, and CPU scheduling.
iotop - is an interactive I/O viewer. Get a snapshot of storage r/w activity.
iostat - provides statistics on storage I/O.
netstat -used to show network statistics.
ss - ss command is a simpler and faster version of the now obsolete netstat command
atop – a tool for monitoring system resources in Linux.
ssh – secure protocol used as the primary means of connecting to Linux servers remotely.
sudo - run commands with administrative privileges. 34. cd – navigate between directories.
touch – used to create, update a computer file or directory's access and modification dates.
man – used to read systpwd – displays the current directory path.
cp - copy files and directories.
mv – move file or directories.
rm – deletes files and directories.
mkdir - create new directories.
rsync - remote file transfer and synchronization.em reference manuals.
apropos – searches manual page names and descriptions for a user-supplied keyword.
tar - is an archive utility.
gzip - use for compression and decompression of files.
b2zip - a compression utility comparable to gzip. It employs a distinct compression algorithm.
zip – used for file packaging and compression (archiving).
locate – in Linux, search for files.
ps – allows you to list the status of processes running on your system easily.
cron - execute scheduled tasks.
mtr - is a network diagnostic tool, a combination of ping and traceroute commands.nslookup - interactively query Internet name servers (NS).
host –used for DNS (Domain Name System) lookup operations.
dig – DNS lookup tool.
nmcli - sused to display network device status, create, edit, activate/deactivate, and delete network connections.
ping - sends an ICMP ECHO REQUEST to network hosts. 57. traceroute - examine the path packets follow to reach a specific host.
wget - download files through HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and FTPS.blkid - a command-line utility for finding and printing block device attributes.
mkfs - create a Linux file system.
fsck - an utility for determining the consistency of a file system.
nc - used for just about anything under the sun involving TCP or UDP.
umask - returns, or sets, the value of the system's file mode creation mask.
chmod – alters the access rights of file system objects.
chown – alter the owner and group of a file.
chroot - used to change the root directory.
useradd - create a new user or alter the default information for a new user.
userdel - used to delete a user account and all associated files.
 usermod – used to edit or change any existing user account's properties.
vi is a text editor.
5. cat – displays the contents of a file.
tac – reverse output file contents.
more - show file contents one screen/page at a time.
less – identical to more, but with more features
tail – used to show the last few lines of a text file or piped data.
head - used to show the first few lines of a text file or piped data.
dmesg – displays the kernel ring's message buffer.
journalctl - Tused to view systemd, kernel and journal logs.
kill - terminates a process.
killall - sends a kill signal to all instances of a specific process.
sleep – pauses program execution for a given amount of time.
 wait – suspend script execution until all background jobs have been completed. killall - sends a kill signal to all instances of a specific process.
nohup - short for no hang up is a command in Linux systems that keep processes running even after exiting the shell or terminal.
screen – keep a remote server session open. (It also functions as a full-screen window manager.)
tmux is a terminal multiplexer.passwd — Change the password of a user.
clear – clears the terminal's screen. 92. env - run a command in an altered environment
mount - used to mount the filesystem found on a device to big tree structure(Linux filesystem) rooted at '/'.
umount - unmounts a previously mounted device, directory, file, or file system.
systemctl - used to control and manage systemd and services.
alias - defines an alias for the specified command.
at - runs a specified script or command at a set later time.
atq - shows jobs in the at utility queue.
atrm - deletes the specified job from the at utility queue.bash - uses the Bourne Again Shell command language to interpret commands from standard input or a file, or to launch a subshell.
bc - Performs calculations via its programming language.
bash - uses the Bourne Again Shell command language to interpret commands from standard input or a file, or to launch a subshell.
bc - Performs calculations via its programming language.
10chfn - changes the specified user account's current information.
chgrp - changes the default group of the specified file or directory.
chmod - changes system security permissions for the specified file or directory
chown - changes the default owner of the specified file or directory.
chpasswd - reads a file of login name and password pairs and updacoproc - spawns a subshell in background mode and executes the designated command or executes a coprocess.
env - executes the designated program in a modified environment or displays the value of all the environment variables.tes the passwords.
chsh - changes the specified user account's default shell.
continue - resumes the next iteration of a for , while , select , or until loop.
htop - a process viewer and manager that is interactive.
coproc - spawns a subshell in background mode and executes the designated command or executes a coprocess.
env - executes the designated program in a modified environment or displays the value of all the environment variables.

